# Zoomcamp Project

## Intro

mf-andres final project for the third cohort of the data engineering zoomcamp.

Contains a data pipeline that extracts prices data from wallapop (a digital second hand items market)
and analyzes it.

## Installation

Install poetry as told in their webpage. https://python-poetry.org/docs/

Install dependencies.

```commandline
make install_dependencies
```

Create a Google project and a service account.

1. Go to the Google Cloud Console and sign in with your Google account. If you don't have a Google account, create one
   first.

2. In the Google Cloud Console, click on the project drop-down menu at the top of the screen and click "New Project".
   Enter a name for your project and click "Create".

3. Once your project has been created, select it from the project drop-down menu at the top of the screen.

4. Click on the navigation menu icon at the top left of the screen and select "IAM & admin" > "Service accounts".

5. Click "Create Service Account". Enter a name for your service account and click "Create".

6. In the "Service account permissions" section, grant the service account the appropriate roles and permissions for
   your project. Grant the followin roles: "Storage Admin", "BigQuery Admin", ...

7. Click "Continue" and then "Done" to create the service account.

8. Find your newly created service account in the "Service accounts" list and click on the three-dot menu on the right
   side of the screen. Select "Create key" > "JSON" and click "Create". This will download a JSON file containing your
   service account credentials.

9. Save the downloaded JSON file in a the credentials folder with the name credentials.json.

Install terraform as told in their
webpage. https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli

Run the following commands to set your project id, region and credentials path. The following command will ask for them.

```
export TF_VAR_project="zoomcamp-project-382011"
export TF_VAR_region="europe-southwest1"
export TF_VAR_credentials="/home/amunoz/Proyectos/zoomcamp_project/credentials/credentials.json"
export TF_VAR_bq_dataset="zoomcamp_project_382011"
```

Deploy Google infrastructure

```commandline
make deploy_google_infrastructure
```

Run the pipeline a fist time. # TODO how to run the whole pipeline a first time?

Create your own lookerstudio report. You need to request access to my
report https://lookerstudio.google.com/reporting/ace3cadb-6cef-4c40-995c-bd1e89fa575f.

Then copy the looker studio by pressing the options "hamburguer?" button. You will need to create your own data source.
You should select the table "price_basic_stats" generated by dbt.

You should now see the graph with one day of data. The graph automatically updates each 12 hours. 
You can manually update by selecting the update data option.

To run the dbt models you may need to configure a new profile. To do this you will need to configure
a new profile. Fill it according to your Google cloud project id's.

```commandline
dbt profile new 'zoomcamp_project_dbt'
```

You may have to change the location on your profiles.yml according to your Google project region.

Despliega la pipeline de ingestión de datos en tu servidor local de prefect.

```commandline
prefect deployment apply
```

# Start

Try to load and store some prices from wallapop

```commandline
make store-prices-example
```

Try to run the dbt models

```commandline
cd 
make store-prices-example
```

## TODO

* Next step is to download the file from storage and upload it to big query (terraform python)
* Then we need to set the transformation in dbt (terraform? docker? dbt)
* Then we need to set the google studio (terraform python?)
* Then we orchestrate it so that it works everyday (prefect)
